Improve docs on 'testing' a dt module (#43748)
DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped: README.md

Definitely Typed only works because of contributions by users like you!

### Testing

Before you share your improvement with the world, use it yourself.

#### Test editing an existing package

> To test local to your project, you can use [module augmentation](http://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-merging.html#module-augmentation) to extend existing types.

Reviewer: It's not super obvious that we're talking about (1) your own project that uses (2) the package you want to improve. I'm not sure how best to distinguish those two things, though.

> Alternatively, you can also directly edit the types directly in `node_modules/@types/foo/index.d.ts` to validate your changes, then bring the changes to this repo with the steps below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can also edit the types directly in `node_modules/@types/foo/index.d.ts` to validate your changes, then bring the changes to this repo with the steps below.
```

> Alternatively, you can also directly edit the types directly in `node_modules/@types/foo/index.d.ts` to validate your changes, then bring the changes to this repo with the steps below.

Reviewer 2: I'm using that approach frequently, works best!

To validate new modules, I usually create a side projec and from DT 'types/...' I copy 'types/{module}' directory to the side project and put everything into its `node_modules/@types`. Can be probalby improved by symlink or other system feature.

When you make a PR to edit an existing package, `dt-bot` should @-mention previous authors.
If it doesn't, you can do so yourself in the comment associated with the PR.

#### Editing tests on an existing package

> Any `*.ts` files in the package are considered as "test" files.

Author: I can make improvements knowing this 👍

These files are used to validate the API exported from the `*.d.ts` files which are shipped as `@types/yourmodule`.

Changes to the `*.d.ts` files should include a corresponding `*.ts` file change which shows the API being used, so that someone doesn't accidentally break code you depend on.

For example, this change to a function in a `.d.ts` file adding an option

`index.d.ts`:

```diff
- export function twoslash(body: string): string
+ export function twoslash(body: string, config?: { version: string }): string
```

`index-tests.ts`:
```diff
import {twoslash} from "./"

> // ExpectType string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// $ExpectType string
```

const result = twoslash("//")

+ // Handle options param
+ const resultWithOptions = twoslash("//", { version: "3.7" })
+ // When the param is incorrect
+ // $ExpectError
+ const resultWithOptions = twoslash("//", {  })
```

> You can validate your changes with `npm run lint package-name` in the root of the repo.

Reviewer 2: This will not run tests, sadly. But excellent starting point!
Readme could promote running `npm test` (simple). This will run tests only againsts current changes (e.g. againts files added to the `types/{module}`.
As the DT repository changes frequently, in order to succesfully run local tests, one needs to:
- update from remote before starting new work (so we start with fresh, udpated branch)
- [optionally] rebase
That is crucial for modules, that reference or are referenced by popular packages, like `@types/react`.

> You can validate your changes with `npm run lint package-name` in the root of the repo.

Reviewer: Maybe mention `npm test` too; needed if you're editing a package with dependents. It works for other packages, too, it's just a little slower.

When you make a PR to edit an existing package, `dt-bot` should @-mention previous authors.
If it doesn't, you can do so yourself in the comment associated with the PR.

#### Editing tests on an existing package

> There should be a `[modulename]-tests.ts` file, and then any `*.ts` which it imports are considered your test files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There should be a `[modulename]-tests.ts` file, which is considered your test file, along with any `*.ts` files it imports.
```

These files are used to validate the API exported from the `*.d.ts` files which are shipped as `@types/yourmodule`.

Changes to the `*.d.ts` files should include a corresponding `*.ts` file change which shows the API being used, so that someone doesn't accidentally break code you depend on.

> If you don't see any test files in the module's folder, create a `[modulename]-tests.ts`

Reviewer: this line is now redundant with the first paragraph. should be moved up there or better yet deleted

For example, this change to a function in a `.d.ts` file adding an option

`index.d.ts`:

```diff
- export function twoslash(body: string): string
+ export function twoslash(body: string, config?: { version: string }): string
```

`index-tests.ts`:
```diff
import {twoslash} from "./"

// $ExpectType string
const result = twoslash("//")

+ // Handle options param
+ const resultWithOptions = twoslash("//", { version: "3.7" })
+ // When the param is incorrect
+ // $ExpectError
+ const resultWithOptions = twoslash("//", {  })
```

You can validate your changes with either:

 - `npm test` from the root of this repo, which takes changed files into account

>  - `npx tsc` from the modules folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `npx tsc` from the module's folder
```

although it's a little hard to recommend `tsc` right after showing off `$ExpectError` since `tsc` doesn't understand that comment.
